String Tensors Basic Documentation (#22097)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/articles_en/openvino_workflow/running_inference_with_openvino/string_tensors.rst

      .. code-block:: python

         # Unicode strings:
         tensor.str_data = ['one', 'two', 'three']
         # Do NOT use tensor.str_data[i] to set a new value, it won't update the tensor content

         # Encoded strings:
         tensor.bytes_data = [b'one', b'two', b'three']
         # Do NOT use tensor.bytes_data[i] to set a new value, it won't update the tensor content

      :sync: cpp

      .. code-block:: cpp

         std::string new_content[] = {"one", "two", "three"};
         std::string* data = tensor.data<std::string>();
         for(size_t i = 0; i < tensor.get_size(); ++i)
            data[i] = new_content[i];

When reading or setting string tensor elements in Python, it is recommended to use `str` objects (or `numpy.str_` if used in numpy array)
when it is known that the underlying byte sequence forms a valid UTF-8 encoded string.
Otherwise, if arbitrary byte sequences are allowed,
not necessarily within the UTF-8 standard, use `bytes` strings (or `numpy.bytes_` correspondingly) instead.

Accessing tensor content through `str_data` implicitly applies UTF-8 decoding.
If parts of the byte stream cannot be represented as valid Unicode symbols,

> The � replacement symbol is used to signal errors in such invalid Unicode streams.

Author: ```suggestion
the � replacement symbol is used to signal errors in such invalid Unicode streams.
```

Representation
##############

String tensors are supported in C++ and Python APIs, represented as instances of the `ov::Tensor`
class with the `element_type` parameter equal to `ov::element::string`. Each element of a string tensor is a string
of arbitrary length, including an empty string, and can be set independently of other elements in the same tensor.

Depending on the API used (C++ or Python), the underlying data type that represents the string when accessing the tensor elements is
different:

 - in C++, std::string is used 
 - in Python, `numpy.str_`/`numpy.bytes_` populated Numpy arrays are used, as a read-only copy of the underlying C++ content

String tensor implementation doesn't imply any limitations on string encoding, as underlying `std::string` doesn't have such limitations.
It is capable of representing all valid UTF-8 encoded symbol sequences and even arbitrary byte sequences not
mandatory limited by UTF-8.
Users should pay extra attention when handling arbitrary byte sequences when accessing tensor content as encoded UTF-8 symbols.

As the string representation is more sophisticated in contrast to for example `float` or `int` data type,

> the underlying memory that is used for string tensor representation cannot be handled without proper construction and
> destroying of string objects.

Author: ```suggestion
the underlying memory that is used for string tensor representation cannot be handled without properly constructing and destroying string objects.
```

So, the `tensor` object in the C++ example will share the same memory as the `strings` vector.

Note that `ov::Tensor`, when initialized with a pointer, requires pre-initialized memory with valid `std::string` objects
created by calling one of the available `std::string` constructors even for empty string. It is undefined behaviour if
not initialized memory is passed to this `ov::Tensor` constructor.

In the Python version of the example above, a regular list of strings is used as an initializer.
No memory sharing is available this time, in contrast to C++,
and the strings from the initialization list are copied to a separately allocated storage underneath the `tensor` object.

Besides a plain Python list of strings, an initializer can be one of the supported `numpy` arrays initialized
with Unicode or byte strings:

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Python
      :sync: py

      .. code-block:: python
         :force:

         import numpy as np

         tensor = ov.Tensor(np.array(['text', 'more text', 'even more text']))
         tensor = ov.Tensor(np.array([b'text', b'more text', b'even more text']))

If `ov::Tensor` is created without providing initialization strings,

> a tensor of specified shape with empty strings as elements is created:

Author: ```suggestion
a tensor of a specified shape and empty strings as elements is created:
```

.. {#openvino_docs_OV_UG_string_tensors}

String Tensors
==============

.. meta::
   :description: Learn how to pass and retrieve text to and from OpenVINO model.

> OpenVINO tensor can hold as its elements not only numerical data like floating point or integer numbers,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenVINO tensor can hold as its elements not only numerical data like floating-point or integer numbers,
```

but also can contain textual information that is represented as one or multiple strings.

> Such a tensor is called a string tensor.

Author: @jiwaszki, I would rely on @kblaszczak-intel opinion to keep the style in all documents aligned.

> Such a tensor is called a string tensor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such a tensor is called as a string tensor.
```

Author: https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/90244/which-is-the-correct-sentence-is-is-called-called-as

A string tensor can be passed as an input or retrieved as an output of OpenVINO model.

> Models with string inputs and/or outputs are dedicatedly designed to process textual information.

Reviewer: Not sure if we need to explain for what these models were developed. Propose to remove this sentence.

For example, string tensors provide a way to feed and retrieve textual data when using OpenVINO

> `tokenizers and detokenizers <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_contrib/tree/master/modules/custom_operations/user_ie_extensions/tokenizer/python>`__.

Author: > with models designed to process text.

OpenVINO tokenizers and detokenizers _are_ models that process text. Not saying this explicitly here, I was just referring to tokenizers and detokenizers as examples where string tensors are used. @kblaszczak-intel, please reformulate your suggestion accordingly.

While this section describes basic API to handle string tensors, more practical examples that leverage both
string tensors and OpenVINO tokenizer can be found in
`GenAI Samples <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai/tree/master/text_generation/causal_lm/cpp>`__.

Representation
##############

String tensors are supported in C++ and Python APIs and represented as an instance of `ov::Tensor`
class with `element_type` parameter equal to `ov::element::string`. Each element of a string tensor is a string
of arbitrary length, including an empty string, and can be set independently of other elements in the same tensor.

Depending on API used (C++ or Python) underlying data type that represents string when accessing tensor elements is
different:

 - std::string is used in C++

>  - `numpy.str_`/`numpy.bytes_` populated Numpy arrays are used in Python as read-only copy of underlying C++ content

Reviewer: Also, let us mention standard Python `str`

Reviewer: why read-only copy is important here?

Author: `str` is not used in tensor representation when accessing elements (the context of that phrase), it can be used as an initializer only

String tensor implementation doesn't imply limitations on string encoding as underlying `std::string` doesn't have such limitations.
It is capable of representing any valid UTF-8 encoded symbol sequences and even arbitrary byte sequences not

> mandatory limited by UTF-8.

Author: Mathematically, consider a set of any possible byte sequences of arbitrary length. There is a proper subset of it that represents valid UTF-8 sequences. All other sequences are not UTF-8 sequences. The second part of my sentence is about the latter sub set of sequences.

> mandatory limited by UTF-8.

Reviewer 2: Ok, I'm good now... If that is the case, I would propose:
"It is capable of representing all valid UTF-8 characters but also any other byte sequence outside of the UTF-8 encoding standard."

Users should pay extra attention when handling arbitrary byte sequences when accessing tensor content as encoded UTF-8 symbols.

> As the string representation is more sophisticated in contrast to for example float or int data type,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the string representation is more sophisticated in contrast to for example `float` or `int` data type,
```

Reviewer: or floating-point and integer data type

the underlying memory that is used for string tensor representation cannot be handled without proper construction and

> destroying of string objects.

Author: Several sources that describe C++ specifics use `destroy` and not `deconstruct`:
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/destructors-c/
https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/destructor

> destroying of string objects.

Reviewer 2: That's interesting :) What do you think about putting it this way: "without properly constructing and destroying string objects" and we could put a link to an article on the two operations, like this one: 
https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/cplusplus/MEM53-CPP.+Explicitly+construct+and+destruct+objects+when+manually+managing+object+lifetime#:~:text=An%20object%20can%20be%20constructed,function%20of%20an%20allocator%20object.

a tensor object can be created on top of existing memory in C++ by providing a pointer to a pre-allocated array of elements.
Here an instance of std::vector is used to hold the memory and consists of three std::string objects.
So `tensor` object in C++ example will share the same memory as `strings` vector.

Note that `ov::Tensor`, when initialized with a pointer, requires pre-initialized memory with valid `std::string` objects
created by calling one of the available `std::string` constructors even for empty string. It is undefined behaviour if
not initialized memory is passed to this `ov::Tensor` constructor.

In Python version of the example above, a regular list of strings is used as an initializer.
No memory sharing is available this time in contrast to C++,
and the strings from the initialization list are copied to separately allocated storage underneath `tensor` object.

Besides a plain Python list of strings, an initializer can be one of the supported `numpy` arrays initialized
with Unicode or byte strings:

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Python
      :sync: py

      .. code-block:: python
         :force:

>          import numpy as np

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         import numpy as np
         import openvino as ov
```

         tensor = ov.Tensor(np.array(['text', 'more text', 'even more text']))
         tensor = ov.Tensor(np.array([b'text', b'more text', b'even more text']))

In case if `ov::Tensor` is created without providing initialization strings,

> a tensor of specified shape with empty strings as elements is created:

Author: Not sure that we need commas here. Probably we can use `and`: `a tensor of a specified shape and empty strings as elements is created`. `Shape` and `empty strings` are independent properties.

> a tensor of specified shape with empty strings as elements is created:

Reviewer 2: Oh, if that's so, I agree, "and" seem a perfect fit.

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Python
      :sync: py

      .. code-block:: python
         :force:

>          tensor = ov.Tensor(dtype=str, shape=[3])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         import openvino as ov

         tensor = ov.Tensor(dtype=str, shape=[3])
```

Author: The same as above: not needed.

   .. tab-item:: C++
      :sync: cpp

      .. code-block:: cpp

         ov::Tensor tensor(ov::element::string, ov::Shape{3});

`ov::Tensor` allocates and initializes required number of `std::string` objects under the hood.

Accessing Elements
##################

The code below prints all elements in 1D string tensor constructed above.
In C++ code the same `.data` template method is used for other data types,
and to access string data it should be called with `std::string` type.

> In Python, dedicated fields `std_data` or `byte_data` are used instead of `data` field for numerical data.

Author: > dedicated `str_data` or `bytes_data` fields are used
?

below.

In contrast to Python, when using `tensor.data<std::string>()` in C++, a pointer to underlying data
storage is returned and it can be used for tensor element modification:

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Python
      :sync: py

      .. code-block:: python

         # Unicode strings:
         tensor.str_data = ['one', 'two', 'three']
         # Do NOT use tensor.str_data[i] to set a new value, it won't update the tensor content

         # Encoded strings:
         tensor.bytes_data = [b'one', b'two', b'three']
         # Do NOT use tensor.bytes_data[i] to set a new value, it won't update the tensor content

      :sync: cpp

      .. code-block:: cpp

         std::string new_content[] = {"one", "two", "three"};
         std::string* data = tensor.data<std::string>();
         for(size_t i = 0; i < tensor.get_size(); ++i)
            data[i] = new_content[i];

When reading or setting string tensor elements in Python, it is recommended to use `str` objects (or `numpy.str_` if used in numpy array)
when it is known that an underlying byte sequence forms a valid UTF-8 encoded string.
Otherwise, if arbitrary byte sequences are allowed,

> not mandatory UTF-8 encoded, use `bytes` strings (or `numpy.bytes_` correspondingly) instead.

Author: The same as "not necessarily UTF-8 encoded".

> not mandatory UTF-8 encoded, use `bytes` strings (or `numpy.bytes_` correspondingly) instead.

Reviewer 2: In that case, my proposition:
```suggestion
not necessarily within the UTF-8 standard, use `bytes` strings (or `numpy.bytes_` correspondingly) instead.
```

Accessing tensor content through `str_data` implicitly applies UTF-8 decoding.

> If some parts of the byte stream cannot be represented as a valid Unicode symbol,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If parts of the byte stream cannot be represented as valid Unicode symbols,
```

> the replacement symbol � is used to signal errors in such invalid Unicode streams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the replacement symbol of "�" is used to signal errors in such invalid Unicode streams.
```

Author: That � symbol _is_ a replacement symbol. Is `of` still required?

Reviewer 2: It is similar to the case of fields, above. We can change it to "The � replacement symbol is used to..."

Additional Resources
####################

> * Learn basic steps about how to integrate the inference in your application with :doc:`additional materials <openvino_docs_OV_UG_Integrate_OV_with_your_application>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Learn about the :doc:`basic steps to integrate inference in your application <openvino_docs_OV_UG_Integrate_OV_with_your_application>`.
```

* Use `OpenVINO tokenizers <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_contrib/tree/master/modules/custom_operations/user_ie_extensions/tokenizer/python>`__
to produce models that use string tensors to work with textual information as pre- and post-processing for the large language models.

> * Checkout `GenAI Samples <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai/tree/master/text_generation/causal_lm/cpp>`__ to see how string tensors are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Check out `GenAI Samples <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino.genai/tree/master/text_generation/causal_lm/cpp>`__ to see how string tensors are
```
